hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery again part
7 this time of our history of T series
if you'll permit me to be so
presumptuous to use the plural thanks
for listening to this and if you've
already lasted through parts 1 to 6
thanks also for sticking with it we're
going to look at the set up for some of
the historical drama in the world of T
during the 18th and 19th centuries
although team made its debut in The
Hague in 1610 it wasn't until the early
part of the 1700s that T had taken
Britain by storm by extension this meant
to the American colonies as well by the
time of Queen Anne's 1702 to 1714 T had
permeated all the rigid strata of
British society and like it was in China
the passion for tea started with the
Royals and the rich first perhaps it
began as a pretentious social function
but goodness overcame pretension and the
pleasure of enjoying a cuppa quickly won
over the hearts of whoever came in
contact with T by the way listener burnt
in deutschland winner of four World Cups
pointed out last time with regard to
Queen Anne I mentioned in part 6 that
Queen Anne's reign lasts from 1702 to
1707 that wasn't totally accurate she
was Queen of England and Scotland and
then after the acts of Union from May
1707 until she died in 1714
she was queen of Great Britain so thanks
burned and anyone who takes the time to
let me know these things by the 1720s
the demand begin to rise steeply as
awareness about tea set in amongst well
those who were neither rich nor royal by
1730 two years before George Washington
was born a million pounds of tea a year
was being imported into Britain by 1760
this number had tripled and by 1779
million pounds of tea was shipped the
population of England in 1770 was only
about 6.4 million so you do the math
okay I'll do it for you
1.4 pounds of tea per person per year
including newborn babies so you know it
was probably closer to a couple pounds a
year that's a lot of tea to handle all
this tea were a network of thousands and
thousands of retailers and wholesalers
who got into the biz by the turn of the
century the average annual per capita
consumption in Britain for tea was about
two and a half pounds per person she had
borrowin away become the most profitable
business in which the East India Company
engaged him during this early period of
teas development a chap named Richard
twining got into the business you know
their brand Twinings I called it
Twinings all the way into my 30s before
I got wise Richard twining was one of
the earliest to notice that tea would
make a very civilized alternative to
England's normal breakfast beverages
this included gin ales and coffee all
safer and more helpful than London's own
water supply that was too contaminated
to drink with tea the water had to be
boiled so you knew it was safe it was
the well known brand started by Richard
twining that played a key role in the
early development of the tea business in
Britain and it was Richard twining and
all his progeny who even up to this day
with Stephen twining played such a key
role during this great historic age of
tea and Britain British East India
Company with a Dutch initially halting
their efforts to deal in the spice trade
were permitted in 1690 to set up trading
operations in Calcutta the Mughal Empire
that had been around since 1526 was
starting to show a lot of wear and tear
as the 1600s came to a close revolts to
mogul rule were popping up all over
India the Battle of Plassey and 17:57
put the British on the driver's seat as
far as control of Bengal they were able
to start taxing businesses there and
commencing turning the Bengal region
into the future
cash-cow it would become for the company
for the rest of the 18th century and
then into the 19th India little by
little fell under the control of the
East India Company by 1772 calcutta
would be the capital of British India if
you're not familiar with the geography
of India this northern part of India
Bengal was where Assam Darjeeling and
Patna are located Assam and Darjeeling
as you all know was and remains famous
for their tea Patna was where the puppy
fields were that would produce the opium
that would be dumped in China with
historic consequences from CHP past
episodes you remember that the tea
loving Qianlong emperor had banned opium
in 1729 and ever since then it had been
smuggled into China where dealers
distributed it to the increasingly
addicted populace over in the American
colonies tea was no less popular than in
the home country thanks to the Dutch the
colonists had known about tea since the
days when Manhattan Island was still
called New Amsterdam tea with milk and
sugar came later to the future American
colonies via France the Dutch drink
green tea straight up occasionally with
some additive for flavoring the Quakers
called tea quotes the cups that chair
but not inebriated unquote someone else
had once written quote tea is better
than wine for it leadeth not to
intoxication neither does it cause a man
to say foolish things and repent thereof
and his sober moments it is better than
water for it does not carry disease
neither does it act like poison as water
does when it contains foul and rotten
matter unquote
hey I'm sold the American colonists
really liked their heissen and bull
haiti they were drinking it in boston as
early as 1670 but it wasn't for general
sale there until 1690 by the 1750s it
was not only the national drink of
England but in the colonies as well this
was partly thanks to sugar that was
being grown
down in the West Indies sugar and tea
were linked in the overall trading
picture sugar and tea went hand in hand
in England sugar and the slave trade
were the front end of what sugar was to
tea the Portuguese kicked off the sugar
trade and began exporting it from Brazil
in the sixteenth century in the 17th
century the British began building
plantations in Barbados and other
islands of the Lesser Antilles in the
18th century the Greater Antilles
especially Jamaica and Hispaniola also
started shipping sugar Hispaniola today
is the the island comprising Haiti and
the Dominican Republic in the 19th
century Cuba joined in on the sugar
trade I think I mentioned in that Wang
Qin Phu podcast that after slavery was
abolished in Cuba in 1886 the plantation
owners turned to Chinese immigrants to
work the sugarcane fields there anyone
familiar with American history studied
the Atlantic triangular slave trade of
the late sixteenth early 19th centuries
the British would trade their wares
copper textiles hardware guns and
munitions to Africa and from these West
African traders they get slaves the
slaves would be packed up like sardines
and shipped off to the New World to work
the Caribbean sugar plantations in the
West Indies or the tobacco plantations
in the American colonies of the 88% of
these slaves who survived the brutal
voyage across the Atlantic they were
traded for sugar molasses rum and
tobacco these commodities were shipped
to Britain thus completing a kind of
trading triangle molasses for those not
sure what it is is what the British
called treacle it's a byproduct of sugar
refining now this wasn't always the case
all the time plenty of trade went on
between the colonies and Britain
directly and it wasn't always strictly
limited to sugar and tea I don't want to
get sidetracked into discussing the
slave trade but I want to point out that
one
the Western nations got involved well
tea trade sort of lost its innocence
although the tea business got mixed in
with the slave trade only in an indirect
way it was still part of the same daisy
chain the Honourable East India Company
by the mid 1700s it's sort of fallen on
hard times they'd bitten off more than
they could chew in India and managing
such an operation became quite a drain
on the company managing India was the II
I seize headache not the British
government's aside from that there was a
bit of an economic depression going on
in Europe and this also affected the EEI
seas health the East India Company was
way too big to fail so when they found
themselves in desperate straits there
was no one else they could turn to
except the British government since the
EIC received their monopoly in the tea
trade in 1698 they had used an army of
lobbyists in London to make sure they
kept Parliament at heel they didn't want
any politicians getting involved and
telling them what to do with their
business so they were masterful and
using their money and power to influence
the laws and regulations but when they
hit a rough patch in the mid 18th
century they had to go to Parliament to
seek relief and finally the government
was able to use this change and the
dynamic to get the upper hand in the
relationship from this point on British
India fell under British political
control rather than solely under EIC
control big business and special
interest groups today still use the same
tactics of the EIC lobbyists to try and
push the government around and to
influence the laws and regulations by
the time you piled on all that taxes and
fees legal British tea was quite
expensive compared to the smuggled
product shipped from the Netherlands
it was very illegal for the Dutch to
ship T to Britain or the colonies that
didn't stop them they'd still purchase
tea in China for their own market and
did a brisk smuggling business in both
England and her colonies no taxes
naturally the colonists chose to
purchase from Dutch smugglers
rather than pay the highly taxed but
higher quality British ESET this put a
huge dent in Britain's tea business
thanks to the Dutch in 1769 tea exports
to the colonies from England was down by
50% parliaments first attempt to deal
with this situation was the indemnity
Act of 1767
this gave the EIC a nice 25 percent
refund and product re shipped to the
colonies this last until 1772
but the British government in order to
make up for this 25 percent loss in
revenue passed the Townsend acts of 1767
not only would this offset the lost
revenue from tax breaks given to the EIC
it would also directly tax the colonists
and a number of items and one of those
items was tea the American colonists
were damned if they were going to be
turned into anyone's cash cow the
prevailing law said British subjects
couldn't be taxed without the consent of
their elected representatives it wasn't
the insignificant three pence per pound
tax that raised the hackles of the
colonists it was simply the whole idea
of the tax altogether the whole
principle began to be fiercely argued
the colonists being in the colonies and
all didn't have elected representatives
in Parliament or anywhere so this is
where the whole idea of taxation without
representation came about the colonists
and the British government were already
sparring over this issue when both sides
were determined not to back down
so when word got round about the
Townsend axis just and the flames of
discontent imported British tea became
the symbol of this unfair taxation
political and community leaders in the
colonies began passing the word to
boycott tea shipped from Britain untaxed
Dutch tea however was still getting at
the market and satisfying the mammoth
demand of the American colonists if
there's sufficient grumbling Britain
repealed the Townsend acts in 1770 but
left the duty of three pence per pound
on tea this was kept in place not only
to show the
is who was still the boss but also to
cover the knots of the salaries of
British colonial officials there but
taxes remained in place in Britain
sufficient enough to cause a hit to the
market tea once again became a luxury
that was a little out of the reach of
lower classes demand went down
stockpiles went up the EIC was again in
hot water they looked to the American
colonies and their insatiable demand for
tea as the answer to all this surplus
tea they had on their hands the key
would be to price tea low enough to
undercut the Dutch who had been
undercutting the British all these years
the answer to this dilemma was known as
the Tea Act of May 10th 1773
this gave the EIC the right to bypass
British middleman in London and for the
first time ship tea direct to the
colonies but the three pence per pound
tax that came from the Townsend Act
remained in force some in Britain feared
this was going to piss off the tea
drinkers in the colonies but nobody
listened to them the EIC began shipping
tea direct to the colonies and they
didn't have to pay the tax they set
prices to undercut Dutch smugglers and
many American merchants who played by
the rules paid the tax for ongoing
shipments of tea from Britain it was
sort of a shell game to figure out
exactly how the taxes ended up getting
paid but the truth remained that all
American colonial merchants and by that
token all and fibers of tea and the
colonies still got stuck paying that
three pence per pound duty the whole
idea of taxation without representation
was still being grumbled about toward
the fourth quarter of 1773 a showdown
was mounting over this tax even though
the final price of the tea was actually
beneficial to the colonists the whole
idea about being diddled by parliament
over taxes was really causing unrest you
see all along when I was saying the
colonists were all teed off about the
idea of taxes being levied without
having any say in the matter
the loudest voices as far as this was
concerned were coming from the direction
of Boston and the Massachusetts
colony their chief spokesman with Sam
Adams and the Sons of Liberty the
loudest nor is may have been coming from
the direction of Boston but in Philly
they weren't keeping their feelings to
themselves this was the time when words
like united we stand divided we fall
were being bandied about a resolution
was passed there at the Pennsylvania
State House on October 18th 1773 184
years to the day when Paul McCartney
would make his debut with the quarry men
that quote the T text was an
unwarrantable duty imposed on the
colonists without their consent that the
EIC was attempting to enforce the text
and that any person who should attempt
to unload or vend the tea would be an
enemy to the country unquote Wow strong
words well in the lead up to the
American Revolution it was Sam Adams and
the group he led in Massachusetts that
lit the spark that lit the fuse that
would directly lead to the signing of
the Declaration of Independence on July
4th 1776 America's watching my fellow
Americans Keyes who studied colonial
history all know about the Boston Tea
Party of December 16 1773 this was the
ultimate response to the Tea Act that
had been enacted seven months before in
May the showdown began in September 1773
when the first of seven East India
Company ships set sail for the four
ports that were designated by the EIC to
act as official agents to deal in E I CT
this was Boston New York Charleston and
Philadelphia these four places supplied
the thirteen colonies with legal British
tea about two hundred and seventy two
thousand kilos of tea was laden onboard
packed in two thousand chests
a standard tea chest was about 40 by 40
by 62 centimeters sometimes a little
bigger as I mentioned the EIC warehouses
were swollen with tea and they were
anxious to finally turn this inventory
into cash besides the whole idea of his
tax another sore spot with the colonial
tea merchants some said the EIC
Edna's monopoly on the tea trade going
back to 1698 these American colonial tea
merchants man so many links were in the
supply chain each taken a hefty profit
and all this got powned off on the gates
by the time it reached the homes of the
people that tea leaves had passed
through almost a dozen hands beginning
with the chine on in the hills and
mountains of Fujian province these
merchants knew all you really had to do
was sail an American vessel from any
East Coast port pick the tea up and
can't on yourself and bring it back
that's one way to efficiently reduce the
links in the chain I discussed in CHP
episode 127 about the 1783 sailing of
the Empress of China all the way up to
the American Revolution if you wanted to
drink tea legally anyway you had to buy
from the Edic
today's tea merchants on the web by
their tea directly from the individual
growers of small-scale tea gardens out
in the middle of the most remote
mountains of China and India
that's about as efficient a supply chain
as you can get only living next door to
a tea garden could beat that there was a
lot of talk and commotion in Boston and
the other three ports about what to do
with this they all knew the cargo was on
the way and due to arrive in late
November early December a consensus was
drawn whereby they decided to refuse the
cargo of tea and those agents who were
cooperating with the EIC were all asked
and as forceful away as possible to
resign and walk away from this the EIC
would have no alternative than to as we
say to a law the word every exporter
hates to hear they'd have to take it
back baby that's what happened in New
York Charleston and Kelly the vessels
sailed into port and the future
Americans all got to say a collective
get a D he and then seeing how foul and
ugly the mood was two ships sailed back
to England loaded with Bo Haiti but the
guy in charge down in Boston
representing British interests wasn't so
willing to bend to the colonists this
led to a showdown this governor Thomas
Hutchinson was not going to back down
and was determined to show a little
backbone in the face
the challenge to British and
parliamentary Authority as the standoff
continued the first ship the dart mouth
was joined by two other vessels the
Eleanor and the beaver the word had gone
down the line in Boston to resist any
attempts to unload the tea from the
ships or pay any import duties so on
December 16 1773 that famous night an
American Revolutionary history went down
in Boston Harbor bunch a man dressed up
as Mohawk Indians the local tribe in the
area boarded all three vessels have
dumped all the tea into Boston Harbor
and he flights flying in and out of
Logan that night would have gotten a
bird's-eye view of the whole thing 342
chests of bow Haiti all the way from
Fujian province and with that hostile
act the colonists made a rather extreme
protest about who should respect - as it
related to self-government in the sacred
idea of levying taxes on the people
without their consent and later on after
this tempest other similar acts of
protest were carried out elsewhere
directed at tea there was a Greenwich
Tea Party of December 22nd 1773 the next
year there was the Charleston tea party
of November 3rd 1774 the Philadelphia
tea party of December 1773 ended with
the ship's captain taking the tea back
to England in the New York Tea Party and
ended the same as in Philadelphia - a
walk there were others tea had become
this symbol of the unpleasant hold that
the British had on the colonists and so
if I may quote the brilliant
James Norwood Pratt from his new tea
lovers Treasury quote unroot to sign the
Declaration of Independence John Adams
wrote his wife Abigail how he asked at a
tavern is it lawful for a weary traveler
to refresh himself with a dish of tea
provided it has been honestly smuggled
and has paid no duty the landlord's
daughter answered sternly no sir we have
renounced tea under this roof
but if you desire it I will make you
some coffee unquote from this whole
brouhaha over tea in the colonies
came a series of events that ultimately
led to the shot heard round the world at
the North Bridge to open the battles of
Lexington and Concord April 19 1775 the
sacred tea parties practiced by all the
grand ladies of the colony were halted
in fits of patriotic protest this was
sort of like the whole freedom fries
thing remember that in 2003 congressman
Bob ney damned French didn't line up
behind us what we wanted to invade Iraq
we taught them not drinking tea anymore
was considered a great symbolic
patriotic act that told the colonial
oppressor to stuffing as euchre said
about the mediate cause if the American
Revolution was the British government's
quote attempts to perpetuate a tea
monopoly distasteful alike to British
and American merchants thus England lost
an empire to oblige the East India
Company unquote over on the other side
of the world when the future Americans
and their British masters were slugging
it out in the colonies the Qianlong
Emperor was in the middle of his long
reign you'll recall from episodes past
that the first half of chin Long's reign
was good in the second half and it could
have been better in 1793 the McCartney
mission is going to come and go and now
Britain was beginning to position itself
for the ultimate collision course that
would be the opium war and the
subsequent Treaty of Nanjing but the
thing about the opium war is that it's
sort of miss named the root cause of the
Opium War wasn't Papaver somniferum
it was camellia sinensis it should have
been called the tea war not the opium
war you've heard it before in chp
episode 6 on the opium war in the
history of Hong Kong series not to
mention the seven part Ching dynasty
overview the British traders have been
forced to put up with the hated Canton
system since the Kangxi Emperor put it
in place back in 1687 the Qianlong
emperor in 1757 made things even worse
by forcing all China trade to go through
the formidable bottleneck of HA po and
Canton
you know the boilerplate story the
British didn't have a whole hell of a
lot to sell to the Chinese to offset the
massive amounts of tea purchases is the
18th century turned into the 19th
century the British Isles had become
thoroughly and completely addicted to
this beverage and having a grossly
unfavorable balance of trade England
could offer nothing except silver
bullion to pay for their tea purchases
let me quote James Norwood prat once
again quote having addicted the greater
part of the english-speaking world to
tea the Honourable company proceeded to
addicted Chinese suppliers to another of
its commodities opium grown in India
unquote instead of silver bullion
pouring into China from Britain's
direction now it was flowing the
opposite direction out of China's
economy
let me quote once again from James
Norwood prat the new tea lovers Treasury
about the final legacy of the East India
Company he said that it had come quote
to be hated and loathed by smugglers and
consumers alike as a symbol of corrupt
complacent monopoly but it also founded
the cities of Calcutta Bombay Singapore
and Hong Kong it hired Captain Kidd to
combat piracy and made Elihu Yale a
fortune with which to endow a university
its corporate structure is the model for
all joint stock companies to this day
the Stars and Stripes was inspired by
its flag the typical New England Church
patterned after its London Chapel in st.
Petersburg modeled on its shipyards
where Tsar Peter the Great had worked
incognito
it created British India caused the
Boston Tea Party and kept Napoleon
captive on its island possession st.
Helena and this long-standing effort and
enterprise was chiefly paid for by tea
the company's fortunes came to rest on
products destined to go down the drain
in Europe and up in smoke in Asia
unquote James Norwood Pratt
quite a lot of 19th century literature
was inspired directly and indirectly by
teeth romances adventure stories poem
he was so central to those times just
before during and after Queen Victoria
in 1823 the British discovered tea
growing wild in Assam it's gonna take a
long time to figure out how to turn this
Assam leaf into a saleable product but
they do this eventually the East India
Company lost its monopoly on tea in 1834
up to this time they had resisted trying
to take advantage of their situation in
India to sea of tea their number one
business by far and away could be
cultivated there now they were starting
to think about that by 1844 53 million
pounds of tea had been shipped to
England a lot of people had discussed
this giving a go at planting and
cultivating tea in India the more of the
years passed the more viable the project
became but too little was known about
the tricks of the trade
too many things remain secret that only
the Chinese seem to know and they were
always so secretive and unapproachable
in this matter this period in the
history of tea the 1830s to the 1850s
this was also the age of the China tea
clippers and the fabled annual tea races
every April this was a race between the
first clipper ships sailing out of the
ports of Fujian to England whoever was
the first to market in England with this
freshest first flush tea of the season
the most prized quality of all would
reap a fortune and prestige and premiums
paid for this product these ships were
fast enough to make the voyage non-stop
in about 85 days the flush is the most
expensive and sought-after part of the
tea plant a single flush equals the
flower bud and the two youngest leaves
the leaves below the flush are still
used but the flush is the most prized
and contains the freshest of flavors
this period was also the age of the
China Clippers portrayed so memorably in
James Clavell book Taipan not only was
at the time of Dirk's drouin in the
noble house it was the peak time of the
Yankee Clipper
the China Clippers Donald McKay James
Baines the British T Clippers the
Thermopylae the Cutty Sark and the great
tea race of 1866 the history of tea
during the late Ming and throughout the
Ching dynasty was a raucous one China
held a very strong competitive advantage
you know having a monopoly and all they
dictated very favorable terms for
themselves and took very healthy profits
along the china side of the supply chain
but as unfavorable as it may have been
for the British thanks now to the opium
trade once again
tea was an immensely profitable business
for the East India Company and by
extension the British Exchequer who got
a piece of that action for a while China
had enjoyed a nice monopoly on the world
tea supply in the nineteenth century
during the reign of the dal Quang
Emperor someone who will look at next
episode is going to carry out a little
industrial espionage financed by the EIC
to steal not only the hardware of tea
but the software as well it was a very
strict ban in place during the ching
dynasty prohibiting the export of live
tea plants and despite this ban for the
first time since the most ancient times
of shun nome 27:37 BCE china's monopoly
on tea and more importantly the
manufacturing process will be broken
we'll look at this story in the next
episode tea by the time of the mid Shang
is totally recognizable to us by this
time tea bags haven't been invented yet
that won't come until the 1920s but
loose leaf teas and porcelain teapots
and tea cups of both Chinese or
chinoiserie gingka John's kiln made both
styles were as common as sugar and milk
in most parts of Europe and certainly in
the UK in her colonies you know in our
21st century world we can choose from
hundreds of the perhaps thousands of
different kinds of teas made around the
world choices abound but in the days
when Westerners were all clamoring for
tea in China
the 1600s clear through till the end of
the eighteen hundreds they didn't have
as many choices
I mentioned Bo Haiti as the standard
benchmark
t of its day there was also Congo which
was considered a step up in quality I
think I mentioned Congo T was what many
of us know is that dark gongfu cha there
was one other prize T and if you never
tried it yourself perhaps your
grandmother or great-grandmother if she
wasn't a member of the LDS Church of
course might have had in her pantry
it's called lapsang souchong tea and
Mandarin this would be pronounced Li
Shan Xiao Zhong it's known today as
Chung Shan Xiao Zhong it's a kind of tea
from the gooey mountain region where Bo
hey comes from the distinguishing
characteristic about lapsang souchong
tea involved the way it is processed the
drying process is carried out by burning
the local pine wood logs the smoke from
this pine wood is absorbed into the
leaves and what you have is a black tea
with a unique smoky flavor so this tea
was another standard in the repertoire
of teas that China shipped to the west I
myself am NOT a big fan of this kind of
tea not an Earl Grey person either this
is one of those teas you either love or
are totally repulsed by remember Chinese
sort of looked down on black teas as
purely a foreigner thing and no pun
intended it wasn't their cup of tea not
until ki Monty came along did someone
make black tea respectable in the China
domestic market Chi Minh was Cantonese
for Chi Minh a city in Anhui province
near the gorgeous granite peaks of
Yellow Mountain
Huang Shan the tea masters from in and
around Keemun or Chi Minh put out
several teas that all carry the Keemun
name it made its debut in the first year
the Guangxu Emperor in 1875 Keemun is a
black tea some call it the queen of
black tea and the the Bordeaux of teas
the person in onwe who developed this
tea first learned how to make Congo down
in Fujian he just brought the know-how
back to his home in Chi Minh on hawai
province this tea goes by many names and
there were many varieties that came out
of the four main growing areas around
Chi Minh Chi Minh hi-yah teaming
Cayman Congo and others this is the only
black tea in China that rose to the
level of tribute tea status
you could bet the Guangxu Emperor sipped
this tea as he stressed out over the
state of the Qing Dynasty during his
watch but it sure was popular in England
Keemun tea ended up as one of the base
teas and your typical English breakfast
teas you brew it at 90 degrees Celsius
194 Fahrenheit for 2 to 5 minutes
depending the color of the tea the
liquor as the industry insiders say will
have a reddish color and depending on
the terroir of that particular Keemun
tea
it'll give off either a floral fruity or
a smoky scent this is a very delicate
tea even though it's a black tea Keemun
black tea uses only the whole bud set
just like green teas that's why it
doesn't look as coarse as the other
whole leaf black teas we'll look at more
teas later you know there are so many
and many of the names are so confusing
at about the halfway point to the 18th
century black tea began to surpass green
tea as the favorite in Holland next
episode we'll look at how the British
were able to figure out the whole tea
processing thing and as a result of this
they were able to launch the indian and
sri lankan tea industry that's quite a
story and we're gonna save that until
next time from a bitter tasting brew
sharing a Chinese character tool with
coats hi bitter vegetable from those
Bronze Age times to the hung the sway
the Tung sung Ming tea just kept getting
better and better because of the wake
travel and exploration was at first it
was all those people's adjacent to China
who learned about tea first
when boats started sailing on the seven
seas and the 15th and 16th centuries
Westerners - got to see and taste for
the first time this beverage called Tay
on the East Coast and Cha in the south
this was quite a dynamic and explosive
age when Great Britain and the colonies
so quickly fell in love with tea who was
to know what all the future
blowback would be from the seven
war the finances of the East India
Company at the time the matter of taxes
derived from the tea trade China's
continued monopoly on team know-how and
technology it's funny to see how
everything was related to everything and
tea was caught in the middle of it all
let me recommend again for those who are
wishing for a much better version of
what I'm introducing James Norwood Pratt
the new tea lovers Treasury and Mary Lou
and Robert Jake heists hei s s the story
of tea a cultural history and drinking
guide yes for the tea dictionaries
encyclopedias guidebooks that give you
the skinny on each and every tea readily
available in the market resources abound
there are books galore that go t by T
and explain about where it comes from
how to brew it what water temperature to
use I mean the whole works there are
books there are tea websites I had no
idea and on top of all this there are
resources in the tea blogosphere that
can teach you even more you could rest
assured at the end of the series I will
provide you all with a list of
recommended resources including books
blogs websites tea houses and whatever
else useful I could think of if you're a
tea person and would like to have your
work included in the CHP list of tea
resources drop me a line at Lazlo at
China history podcast comm we're gonna
hold off on this until part 10 I'm
afraid if I upload it now you might
snatch it and blow off the rest of this
tea series so I'm gonna keep this one
close to my chest the China history
podcasts history of teas series is
brought to you by the spirit of tea a
book and traveling exhibition by tea
lover and photographer Matthew London
the spirit of tea is a fresh look into
the ancient yet vibrant world of Chinese
tea culture through Matthew's stunning
photographs from an epic four year
journey throughout mainland China Taiwan
Hong Kong and Macau based on his
philosophy of the five elements of tea
along with masterpiece Chinese paintings
and poetry
the spirit of tea takes you deep into
the heart of the birthplace of tea and
offers profound insight into the
and beauty of Chinese tea wisdom Matthew
London is giving away five signed
photographic prints from the spirit of
tea each episode head on over to
www.hsn.com ing the glue shirt that I
mentioned in part one featuring his
project which was seen by hundreds of
millions of people in China plus me too
I know a lot of you out there already
know of pathlight magazine and this
talented group of literary folk in
Beijing who used their top drawer
translation abilities to introduce to
English speakers some of the best new
writing and poetry coming out of China I
mention them because the theme of the
latest issue is myth and history I have
a link on my website to where you can
find them pathlight magazine everyone
thank you my cherished and good looking
listeners for downloading streaming or
however you found this most humble of
podcasts
this is liza montgomery signing off
maybe for the first time ever from the
one-time Jurchen ching dynasty central
capital of Beijing just got here this
evening and leaving tomorrow night a
shan't be long
please continue to stick with the
program and consider joining me next
time perhaps for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast